in this video let us learn about binary recursion
In Binary recursion function calls itself twice
It is also called as tree recursion See here
the function fun is calling itself twice
Let us understand the binary recursion using the
nth fibonacci problem see this programme for finding the
n term In the Fibonacci series we have the main
function and the function fib first execution begins from here we
have int result equal to fib of four so function fib
is called by passing the value fib
So control gets here and n equal to four Now
chek if n is less than or equal to one it is
not so
Return fib of n minus one plus Fib of n
minus two
That is fib of three plus fib of two
See fib of four is called and it is calling fib
of three and fib of two
that is binary recursion
So fib is called again by passing three so n
equal to three now and check
If n is less than or equal to 1
But it is not so in else
We have returned fib of n minus one
That is fib of two plus fib of n minus
two
That is fib of one again
See when fib of three was called it called Fib
of two and fib of one
Now fib of two will be executed and we have
n equal to two now
So if fails and in else we have returned fib
of one plus Fib of zero again
See here fib of two is called and it is
calling fib of one and fib of 0
So control goes to fib of one here n equal
to one
So if returns two and return N which is one
So we got one here
Now call fib of zero and here n equal to 0
So here also if is true and returns n that
is zero
Now the Control returns to calling function fib of two
Here we got return 1 plus 0 which is one so return
one to the calling function fib of three
And we got fib of two equal to one
And now we have the second call fib of one
which will also return one
So we got return one plus one which is
two so two will be returned to the calling function
fib of four now we got return two plus fib of
two and as we got fib of two will call
fib of one and fib of zero and fib of
one will return one and fib of zero will return
zero
So one plus zero which is equal to one will be
returned to the calling function fib of four So we got
two plus one which is three which will be returned to
the calling function main
So this is what binary recursion each time
the function is called it is calling itself two types.